---
layout: post
title:      "Why I was inspired to pursue Software Engineering "
date:       2020-03-29 21:17:01 +0000
permalink:  why_i_was_inspired_to_pursue_software_engineering
---


So to begin, I suppose I should introduce myself. I'm Samantha, I am 27 years old and I live in Nevada, right outside of Reno. For years I was unable to honestly answer the standard "What are your plans for the next five years?" question in interviews, because I honestly had no idea. I wasn't hopeful for the future and I was living day-to-day, week-to-week, month-to-month. I'd avoid thinking about what the next year of my life would look like, I dreaded birthday's because I would compare my accomplishments to what my friends had accomplished. But the difference was, they seemed to be sure and confident about their life choices, happy in their jobs, and excited for the future.

About two years ago, I began working at an electronic recycling company here in town. I wasn't immediately working with computers, but I was kind of pushed into it because the more senior staff members didn't want to take the time to work with the hundreds of laptops we would receive. I enjoyed working with them because it data destruction was interesting, installing linux was easy and it was a simple process I got the hang of it. It wasn't long before I started trouble shooting the ones that we received that wouldn't immediately boot. I excelled at it and becamse the "Specialist." Now, there wasn't a raise that came with this position and there wasn't anything growth potential. I would have in depth conversations with our IT guy about how our networks worked, our servers, Mac OS and Windows, SSDs, HDDs, and I couldn't get enough. It reawakened a part of me that I forgotten about. The girl that used to make her own Myspace layouts and create fake websites for businesses that didn't exist. I took two years of Web Design classes in high school (all that was available), I joined the Yearbook comittee because I enjoyed design, photography because I had a good grasp on photoshop and liked creating thoughful images.

A few months ago I began to play with html/CSS again and because things since then have become more complex, I dove in to Javascript. I loved what I was learning but there was a ton of information and I had no idea where to start. I attended University of Nevada, after a couple years at a community college in CA, studying Psychology. But became very discouraged with how much education I needed to complete before I could begin my career. I was terrifyed of the debt, the uncertainty. So I dropped out and began working full time assuming that there was no hope of ever returning to school. When I became interested in web design again I researched local colleges that offered Computer Science degrees and again became discouraged at the amount of education I would need to complex, the debt and again, the uncertainty. It was then that I came across bootcamps and loved the idea that I could dedicate myself full-time, be finished and out pursuing a real career in months instead of years. That I wasn't in debt and wouldn't pay anything until I was employeed. That I would have help along the way and assistance finding a career when I was finished.

In closing, I'm pursuing this because it's the one thing I've ever pursued outside of work or college that could be useful to me in a career. I have a thirst for every single thing I can learn about programming in general. I'm reading things outside of classes, trying to consume every bit of education I can before I jump into what hopefully becomes a real career for me. And that's why I want to become a Software Engineer. Thanks for reading!# Enter your title here

The content of your blog post goes here.
